                            LPTTRIGGER


Presentation
============

This package provides a C library implementing 3 main funtionnalities using
the parallel port.

The first one is an abstract layer allowing to set the level on the data
pins of the parallel port (lptwriter). This allows to implement a basic
digital output based on TTL signals.

The second functionality is a triggering system that allows to send a
trigger signal to each data pins on the parallel port. It ensures that each
trigger will last AT LEAST for a certain amount of time (set when the port
is opened). When used with a sampling device, it allows to ensure that each
trigger will be "seen" by the device (will last for more than the duration
of a sample). Beware that it ensures a minimum duration for each trigger
but not a minimal duration between the trigger: if two triggers are sent
very closely (in time domain) to the same data line, there is a risk that
the two triggers will be merge (there will be only one rising edge).

the third functionality is a pulse width-modulated signal generator.


Supported platforms
===================

Only GNU/Linux and windows platform are supported. Due to the lack of
driver to access to parallel port hardware, the support of Mac OS X has
been dropped. On Windows, the access to the parallel port is implemented
through the use of WINIO library. In addition, due to the lack of high
performance timing functions on this platform (equivalent to
clock_nanosleep), the pulse width modulated signal generator is not
implemented for it.


Compilation options
===================

This library is organized as a GNU package and can be compiled and
installed in the same way (see INSTALL file for further information).
However, few non standard options are proposed to be passed to the
configure script:

    --disable-install-winio : Don't install the provided copy of the winio
        library (applicable only on windows). This can prevent conflicts
	with preinstalled version of the library (in particular with the
	daq toolbox of MATLAB). If the installation is disabled, the user
	should make sure that there is a copy of winio.dll available in a
	folder accesible by the Path environment variable of windows. 

